Pages about a11y the bussiness case (#339)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/start/business/your-clients-inaccessible-wordpress-site-is-running-a-tab.md

## Scenario 1: The WooCommerce shop that doesn't need to comply and loses around €6,600 a year

Let's take a Dutch WooCommerce shop. It's "just" mid-size and has around 40,000 transactions a year, which puts it comfortably inside EAA exemption territory. A contact form, a help page, and a support inbox that the team handles.

The support volume is around 800 inbound contacts a month. Some of those are returns and complaints, but a meaningful share are users who could not do something themselves: find a product, complete a checkout, understand a delivery status page, work out how a filter operates, or read a comparison table on a mobile screen, for example.

A Dutch customer service employee working at an online help desk earns on average between €14.50 and €18.50 gross per hour. A typical support contact for a small e-commerce operation takes around eight minutes end-to-end, so at a mid-point of €16.50 an hour, that is roughly €2.20 per contact.

### At 800 contacts a month, the total handling cost is around €21,120 a year.

Now here is the question your client is not asking: how many of those 800 monthly contacts are avoidable? 

>  i'm not talking about the complaints or the returns here. The contacts I meet are the ones where someone simply could not figure out how to do something on the website. A conservative estimate, based on what the research consistently shows about inaccessible digital journeys, puts that share at 30 to 40 percent, so call it 250 contacts a month. At €2.20 each, that is €550 a month, or €6,600 a year in avoidable support handling cost, from a website that does not legally need to be accessible. And to be clear: that is based on gross salary alone, not total employer cost, so the real figure is much higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm not talking about the complaints or the returns here. The contacts I'm concerned with are the ones where someone simply could not figure out how to do something on the website. A conservative estimate, based on what the research consistently shows about inaccessible digital journeys, puts that share at 30 to 40 percent, so call it 250 contacts a month. At €2.20 each, that is €550 a month, or €6,600 a year in avoidable support handling cost, from a website that does not legally need to be accessible. And to be clear: that is based on gross salary alone, not total employer cost, so the real figure is much higher.
```

A procurement manager navigating the portal with a wrist injury uses keyboard navigation. A buyer with low vision or color blindness needs to read a spec comparison without relying on color differentiation alone. A product description hiding in a video with spoken text without closed captions and a proper transcript won't come across if the user can't listen to the video. These users do not disappear. They open a support ticket (if you're lucky. If not, you lose them to another B2B portal that does better).

Whether you are exempt from rules and regulations in your country based on the European Accessibility Act actually doesn't matter at all. You may be exempt because you solely operate B2B, but as you can see, being a B2B business also means the cost per contact is higher. 

In B2B, support contacts are more expensive than in e-commerce because they involve more specialized staff and longer handling times. If 15% of the monthly ticket volume traces back to interface barriers, and the platform handles 400 tickets a month, that is 60 avoidable tickets a month. At a conservative €25 per ticket to resolve end-to-end, that is €1,500 a month and €18,000 a year.

> ## Scenario 3: The organization that isn't selling anything, throwing around €20,000 a year in the bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Scenario 3: The organization that isn't selling anything, throwing around €20,000 a year in the bin
```

Take a Dutch housing association with 8,000 tenants. Their tenant portal handles maintenance requests, rent payments, and address changes, and their communication materials are PDFs, typically created in Word and exported without accessibility tags, which means screen readers encounter them as unstructured noise. The portal was built on WordPress, the theme looked fine in the browser, and the keyboard navigation was never tested.

A tenant who cannot use the portal calls the service line instead. Benchmarking Publiekszaken, the benchmark program run in partnership with the VNG and NVVB, puts the cost of a telephone contact at a municipality at around €14, and housing associations operate in a comparable range. If the housing association receives 600 inbound contacts a month and a conservative 20% trace back to navigating the portal or interpreting a PDF, that is 120 avoidable contacts at €14 each, so €1,680 a month and €20,160 a year.

Of course that is not revenue at risk. But is is operating cost, drawn from service charges and housing budgets, and the conversation about not needing to comply did not touch it.

> ## Scenario 4: The municipal website, annually burning €210,000 in tax payers money

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scenario 4: The municipal website, annually burning €210,000 in tax payer money
```

Take the lower end. At 15,000 contacts a month with 25% arriving via phone or counter because the digital journey failed, that is 3,750 contacts a month shifting from a sub-€1 channel to a €14-plus channel, or €52,500 per month in assisted contact costs from avoidable digital failures. Per year: €630,000.

The Netherlands has 342 municipalities. According to the [DigiToegankelijk Jaarmonitor 2024](https://www.digitoegankelijk.nl/nieuws/jaarmonitor-digitale-toegankelijkheid-2024-gelanceerd) (in Dutch), the official Dutch government accessibility monitoring program, more than half of all government digital channels still did not meet the legal accessibility standard at the end of 2024. For municipalities specifically, the VNG Monitor confirms that full compliance remains the exception. That means the cost structure above applies across the majority of the 342, not as a worst-case assumption but as a documented baseline.

> Scale that across even half of those municipalities and a conservative estimate puts the national figure at over €35 million a year in avoidable support costs attributable to accessibility barriers. That is tax payers money. All of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scale that across even half of those municipalities and a conservative estimate puts the national figure at over €35 million a year in avoidable support costs attributable to accessibility barriers. That is tax payer money. All of it.
```

## The users you never hear from

The scenarios above only count the users who escalated, and they don't count the ones who gave up.

> According to a [2023 Yext study of German consumers](https://www.yext.com/de/about/news-media/support-survey-2023), one in five people who used a help page bought from a different company because the search function was not useful, and among 18 to 34 year olds that figure rises to 36%. These users do not appear in the support queue. They appear in the churn rate, and nobody connects the two.

Reviewer: This section duplicates data in another article, and might be better as a summary with a link. (The main thing I'm trying to avoid is having links to external resources in multiple places, so they're easier to update later, if needed...)

This is not a compliance argument. Compliance arguments depend on thresholds and enforcement and legal risk, and this argument is simpler than that. The interfaces you build either help users complete tasks or they do not, and when they do not, someone pays. Usually it is your client, and sometimes it is the public.

An accessible form is a cleaner form. Correct heading hierarchy is clearer navigation. Labelled fields, proper focus management, and keyboard-navigable components are things that reduce friction for every user, not a special category of user, and when you build them correctly your client's support queue gets shorter. That is a concrete, measurable outcome that has nothing to do with whether the EAA applies.

## The number that puts this in context

For a WooCommerce shop with 40,000 annual transactions and a conservative 20% of inbound contacts tracing back to interface barriers:

> |Metric|Amount|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metric | Amount |
```

Reviewer: The markdown documentation doesn't mention needing spaces around the pipes, but *all* of the examples I can find use them, and these aren't rendering as they are on the preview site. I'm assuming that they need spaces; but I could be wrong.

> |---|---|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --- | --- |
```

> |Monthly inbound support contacts|800|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Monthly inbound support contacts | 800 |
```

> |Contacts attributable to interface barriers (30%)|250|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Contacts attributable to interface barriers (30%) | 250 |
```

> |Average gross hourly wage (mid-point)|€16.50|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Average gross hourly wage (mid-point) | €16.50 |
```

> |Average handling cost per contact (8 min)|€2.20|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Average handling cost per contact (8 min) | €2.20 |
```

> |Monthly avoidable support cost|€550|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Monthly avoidable support cost | €550 |
```

> |Annual avoidable support cost|€6,600|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Annual avoidable support cost | €6,600 |
```

> |Cost of a focused audit and remediation|€3,000 to €6,000|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cost of a focused audit and remediation | €3,000 to €6,000 |
```

> |Payback period|12 to 18 months|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Payback period | 12 to 18 months |
```

> After the first payback cycle, the remediation recovers its cost every year, and this model uses gross salary figures rather than total employer cost. The real figures are higher. For a mid-size municipality, replace 250 contacts with 3,750 and replace €2.20 with €14, and you do not need a different argument, just different inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After the first payback cycle, the remediation recovers its cost every year, and this model uses gross salary figures rather than total employer cost. The real figures are higher. For a mid-size municipality, replace 250 contacts with 3,750 and replace €2.20 with €14, and you do not need a different argument, just different inputs.
```

> ## The exemption question, settled

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## The exemption question, settled
```
